[[preface]]
== Preface

Developing Object-Oriented software that deals with data from Relational
Databases can be cumbersome and resource consuming. Development costs
are significantly higher due to a paradigm mismatch between how data is
represented in objects versus relational databases. Hibernate is an
Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) solution for Java environments. ORM
refers to the technique of mapping data between an object model
representation to a relational data model representation. See
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-relational_mapping[Wikipedia] for a
good high-level discussion. Also, Martin Fowler's
http://martinfowler.com/bliki/OrmHate.html[OrmHate] article takes a look
at many of the mentioned mismatch problems.

Although having a strong background in SQL is not required to use
Hibernate, having a basic understanding of the concepts can help you
understand Hibernate more quickly and fully. An understanding of data
modeling principles is especially important. Both
http://www.agiledata.org/essays/dataModeling101.html and
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_modeling are good starting points for
understanding these data modeling principles.

Understanding the basics of transactions and design patterns such as
"Unit of Work" <<Bibliography.adoc#PoEAA,PoEAA>> or "ApplicationTransaction" are important as well.
These topics will be discussed in the documentation, but a prior
understanding will certainly help.

Hibernate not only takes care of the mapping from Java classes to
database tables (and from Java data types to SQL data types), but also
provides data query and retrieval facilities. It can significantly
reduce development time otherwise spent with manual data handling in SQL
and JDBC. Hibernateâ€™s design goal is to relieve the developer from 95%
of common data persistence-related programming tasks by eliminating the
need for manual, hand-crafted data processing using SQL and JDBC.
However, unlike many other persistence solutions, Hibernate does not
hide the power of SQL from you and guarantees that your investment in
relational technology and knowledge is as valid as always.

Hibernate may not be the best solution for data-centric applications
that only use stored procedures to implement the business logic in the
database, it is most useful with object-oriented domain models and
business logic in the Java-based middle-tier. However, Hibernate can
certainly help you to remove or encapsulate vendor-specific SQL code and
will help with the common task of result set translation from a tabular
representation to a graph of objects.

See http://hibernate.org/orm/contribute/ for information on getting
involved.


[TIP]
====
If you are just getting started with using Hibernate you may want to
start with the Hibernate Getting Started Guide available from the
http://hibernate.org/orm/documentation[documentation page]. It contains
quick-start style tutorials as well as lots of introductory information.
There is also a series of topical guides providing deep dives into
various topics.
====
